---
title:  "Using CtrlP in Vim"
date:  2018-06-04
categories: Vim
tags: [Vim]
---

# CtrlP

[ctrlp.vim][1] extension can be used to get different matching algorithm, written in C language with a small portion of Python.
It allows you to [fuzzy search][3] the source file, just like many search functions that IDEs provide. (I will post a note about fuzzy search later)  

### Installing CtrlP

See [this website][4] to install ctrlp plugin.

### The Basics
With an active vim session opened, press `Ctrl-p`. The installation procedure automatically added this vim shortcut; If not, type
 ```
 :CtrlP
 ```
Enter the file name that you want to search for.
Let's open file: Hit Enter (buffer), `Ctrl-x` (horizontal split), `Ctrl-v` (vertical split), or `Ctrl-t` (tab)

### Ctrl-y
Let's say you want to create a new file named `error_handler.cpp`, but you want to store in a new folder called `handler` because you think there will be more types of handlers to be developed and managed together.

This is what you typically do:

```console
kyle@ubuntu:~/$cd project/src                             # 1. Go to the source directory
kyle@ubuntu:~/project/src$mkdir handler                   # 2. Make directory
kyle@ubuntu:~/project/src$cd handler                      # 3. Go to that directory
kyle@ubuntu:~/project/src/handler$vim error_handler.cpp   # 4. Create error_handler.cpp
```

This is tedious job for many people. The worst part is that if you make a new file with vim command, you have two different vim sessions. Now, you might want to go back to the original vim session to take advantage of vim features (like file buffers). So, you close thcome back to the original vim session, open the file you created, and then finally start working with it. You can use `touch` or `cat` command to simply create an empty file, but it's not a game changer.

Life is short. Use CtrlP; there is a much simpler way with which you do not need to leave the current vim session and switch to console line.

Let's put handler/error_handler in CtrlP command line. Nothing pops up which is correct. Then, press `ctrl-y`.

* Automatically creates a parent directory of that file if it does not exist.
* Note: Clear Cache (F5) to update. Otherwise it does not appear in the CtrlP prompt even if you add the file.

### Open multiple files at once
* Navigate and mark the files that you want to open together, by pressing `Ctrl-z`.
* Open file with `Enter`/`Ctrl-t`/etc. (Shortcut to open file is the same; For instance, if you want to open the selected files in separate tabs, press `Ctrl-t`. )

### CtrlPLine
In the vim command, type below
```
:CtrlPLine
```
to enter the CtrlPLine mode. It allows you to fuzzy search the content of the current file. Way better than the normal vim grep.

Most of the features explained above can be found in [this video][2] or the [ctrlp.vim][1] website.

[1]:https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim "ctrlp.vim"
[2]:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8XGueeQJsrA&t=795s "MinuteVimTrick's YouTube posting"
[3]:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xM45BxB8ZfE "Fuzzy Matching in JavaScript"
[4]:http://ctrlpvim.github.io/ctrlp.vim/#installation "Install CtrlP"
